add new solutions section (#2310)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/solutions/platform-engineering/automate-infrastructure-provisioning.md

---
id: automate-infrastructure-provisioning
title: Automate Infrastructure Provisioning with Self-Service
sidebar_label: Automate Infrastructure Provisioning
---

### The Scenario

In an organization that adopts a "you build it, you run it" approach, development teams are responsible for the entire lifecycle of their applications. However, when they need new infrastructure resources (like a database, a message queue, or a storage bucket), they must open a ticket for the Cloud Operations team.

### The Challenge

* **Slowness and Bottlenecks**: The ticket-based process is slow. A developer can wait for days to get a new database, effectively blocking the development of new features.
* **Resource Inconsistency**: Manual provisioning by the Ops team can lead to inconsistent configurations. A database might be created with different performance parameters than another, or without the correct backup policies.
* **Excessive Load on the Ops Team**: The Cloud Operations team is swamped with repetitive, low-value requests, diverting time and energy from more strategic activities like cost optimization and security improvement.

> * **Lack of Self-Service**: Developers are not truly autonomous. Their speed is limited by the availability of another team, contrary to the principles of an effective DevOps culture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Lack of Self-Service**: Developers are not truly autonomous. Their speed is limited by the overreliance on another team, which hinders effective DevOps practices fulfilment.
```

4.  **Self-Service Experience for Developers**: Now, when a developer needs a new database:
    * They access their **Application Project** on Mia-Platform Console.
    * They go to the **Resources** section and select "Create from Marketplace".
    * They search for and select the "MongoDB Atlas Cluster" component.
    * They fill out a simple form with the required parameters (e.g., the database name and size).
    * Upon saving and deploying, the Console triggers a pipeline (defined in the Infrastructure Project) that automatically and securely runs `terraform plan` and `terraform apply`.

5.  **Approval Workflow (Plan & Apply)**: The deployment is not immediate. The pipeline stops after the `plan`, showing the developer (or a designated approver) the exact impact of the changes. Only after approval does the pipeline proceed with the `apply`, creating the resources in the cloud provider.

### The Outcome

* **Speed and Agility**: Developers can provision the infrastructure they need in minutes, in total autonomy, eliminating waiting times.

> * **Standardization and Security "by Default"**: All resources are created following the best practices defined by the Ops team. Security, backup, and monitoring are configured by default, drastically reducing the risk of manual errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Standardization and Security "by Default"**: All resources are created abiding by embedded best practices defined by the Ops team, who sets the standard. Security guardrails, backup, and monitoring are configured by default, drastically reducing the risk of manual errors.
```
